Well, amen. Thank you, young men. Certainly appreciate them ministering in music. Welcome
home to Kiademe as well. And she finished her first semester of college, and thank you
for praying for her. She said the week of finals went well, and so we're thankful and
good to see her and look forward to seeing her over the next couple of weeks. If you
have your Bible with you this morning, Psalm 145, Psalm 145, and it's got 21 verses in
this particular psalm, we're going to do our best to make it through the entirety of the
psalm this morning. And I am thankful throughout this calendar year, our theme has been Great
is the Lord. The banners are up, you have sermon notebooks and bookmarks and calendars
and we sing a theme song. I mean, we just try to keep it in front of us every single
week to be reminded of what our theme is. And as we have had the opportunity throughout
this year, this calendar year, to study the subject, to be able to preach on the subject
of Great is the Lord, I've been encouraged, I trust that you have as well. It's exciting
to know the Lord. And what a blessing to have a Bible. Of course, in God's Word, He's given
us the revelation of Himself. He's given us the truth with regard to salvation. And certainly
thankful for what God has revealed to us this morning will be our final message on this
particular theme. Next Sunday morning, I'll be preaching a Christmas message. And then
December 31st, we will introduce the theme for 2024. And so this is the last message
of the year. And I trust that God will help us as I seek to package over 30 messages on
this particular subject into one final charge this morning. And I trust that as we have
studied this subject matter of Great is the Lord, that our faith has been increased. I
trust that we have, as we've examined the various aspects of God's greatness, that it
has had an impact, a direct impact on how we behave. Why? Because we serve a great God.
And no doubt, what we believe will have an impact on our behavior. And I trust that God
has had that opportunity in your life and my life through the preaching of His Word
to remind us of how great He is and that it would have an impact on our daily living this
morning. I'm going to preach from this chapter. I've titled the message really from verse
number three, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. It's actually the full statement
of our banner. It's the same truth that we find in Psalm 48 and verse number one as that
passage of scripture begins. But we'll look here at Psalm 145. Begin reading with me in
verse number one. The Bible says this, I will extol thee, my God, O King, and I will bless
thy name forever and ever. Every day will I bless thee and I will praise thy name forever
and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised and His greatness is unsearchable.
One generation shall praise thy works to another and shall declare thy mighty acts. I will
speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty and of thy wondrous works. And men shall speak
of the might of thy terrible acts and I will declare thy greatness. As we look at this
portion of scripture, we'll make it through verse number 21 through the message this morning.
I find myself looking at verse number three and obviously understanding that the psalmist
recognizes the greatness of God. But he makes this statement at the end of verse number
three which is so, just a thought provoking statement when he says, and His greatness
is unsearchable. We find that in Psalm 135 in verse number five, the psalmist declares
with great confidence and certainty, I know that the Lord is great. And so we find that
the psalmist this morning understanding the greatness of God and obviously worshiping
and praising God because of what he understands to be true about God. We find that he gives
us this nugget of truth at the end of verse number three that tells us His greatness is
unsearchable. And I'm so thankful that God has revealed to us in His word who He is and
how great He is. But the reality this morning for each and every one of us, and though our
thoughts may vary this morning with regard to what we understand about God and how great
He is in our mind, for every one of us this morning, this statement is true that no matter
how great you think God is this morning, He's far greater. He's far greater than your mind
could ever conceive that you could ever imagine. He is greater, greater, and greater. And what
a blessing to understand the truth of God's word. He is infinite. We are finite. We cannot
in our finite minds understand the totality of how great our God is. By the way, if you
could fully understand how great God is, I would argue that He's probably not God. Amen?
But because of who He is and what He has revealed to us in His word, we find the very truth
that His greatness is unsearchable. But for you and I this morning, just as we look at
the psalm here in Psalm 145, we find that though His greatness is unsearchable, we can
be certain that God is great. We can sing about it. We can speak about it. We can have
that confidence this morning that we serve a great God. If you're taking notes this morning,
just a few thoughts as we get through Psalm 145 this morning. Number one, the psalmist
here in Psalm 145, the psalmist is convinced of God's greatness. He is convinced of God's
greatness. You know what it means to be convinced of something? I mean, if you are convinced
of something, you are settled on some truth. There's no one that's going to be able to
persuade you otherwise. You are convinced of it. You are confident in what it is that
you believe. And here as I look at Psalm 145, I see that the psalmist is, he is convinced,
he is confident that God indeed is great. Notice he makes this very broad declarative
type of statement, very plain, in verse number three, great is the Lord and greatly to be
praised. We find that as he would use, if I could use the terminology this morning,
a broad brush, if you will, in verse number three, by simply declaring God is great and
greatly to be praised. It's a plain, broad statement that the psalmist makes in verse
number three. But I want you to understand that as you study through Psalm 145, that
the details that are provided are overwhelming with helping us to understand why the psalmist
is so convinced and so confident that God is great. And this morning and throughout
this year, we've sought to take the Sunday morning service and the message series to
try to help each of us as God's people to have that same level of confidence for we
to be convinced that our God is great. Notice with me as we look at the details that are
provided here in Psalm 145, if you look and study through this, notice in verse number
five, and we'll walk our way through the psalm, we'll begin in verse number five, where it
says this, I will speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty. I want you to think about
that statement when we think about his majesty. The word carries with it the idea of splendor.
It has the quality or state of a person which inspires awe or reverence. I wonder this morning
when you think about his majesty, and I wonder this morning if we stand in awe of who God
is. We use that word awesome in our English language, and there are times in which we
may speak of something or someone being awesome because of some attribute or something, but
we find that we as the people of God as we come face to face with who God is, we ought
to stand in awe of who he is. Why? Because of his majesty. And when we understand the
quality of who God is, when we understand the qualities and the characteristics that
God has revealed to us within his word, we find that we stand in awe of him. He is worthy
as I started the service this morning, we sang that we're come to worship. The reality
is that he is worthy of our worship, and we ought to stand in awe of a thrice holy God.
We find that the psalmist begins providing the details for us with regard to why would
he make the statement great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is
unsearchable. Well, he starts in verse number five by speaking of his majesty. Notice in
verse number seven the Bible says this, they shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great
goodness and shall sing of thy righteousness. So we see in verse number seven that the psalmist
reminds himself and reminds us of God's great goodness. I'm so thankful that God is a good
God. He's a great God, but he's a good God, and we find this morning that David would
say, and this psalm is ascribed to David, that David would say in other places, taste
and see that the Lord is good. And we find this morning that the Bible says of thy great
goodness. God is good all the time. I often have had conversations over the past with
folks within our church and even outside of our church, and you think about the opportunity
to, Gloria Long will say this to me every time I speak with her, God is good all the
time.
And then she'll say, all the time God is good.
And what a great reference for us to understand.
So often today people have the idea that God's goodness is dependent somehow on their circumstances.
But that's far from the truth.
God is good all of the time.
No matter what our circumstances are, we know that God is good.
It is his very nature, it is his very being.
And here we find that the psalmist, as he declares broadly the greatness of God in verse
number three, he provides us with various details, his majesty, his great goodness.
But notice in verse number seven, thy righteousness.
I'm thankful that God is righteous.
He's not becoming righteous.
He is righteous.
He always does that which is right.
We find that as we would understand that we, all of our righteousness, according to what
Isaiah says, is as filthy rags.
But I'm thankful for this wonderful Bible truth that at the moment of salvation, if
you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal savior, at the moment of salvation,
God's righteousness is imputed upon us.
And that's a wonderful Bible truth.
See this morning there are people all around the world and perhaps even one or several
within our congregation that are gathered here this morning that are seeking to earn
maybe salvation through some merit of their own, their own righteousness, quote unquote.
Can I tell you this morning, biblically, you could never earn it.
You could never find that merit.
We find that all of it is as filthy rags.
But here's what God says in 2 Corinthians 5 and verse 21, for he hath made him to be
sin for us.
That's Jesus Christ, the sinless lamb of God, God in flesh, who knew no sin, that we might
be made the righteousness of God in him.
And he takes his righteousness and he imputes it upon our account.
What a wonderful truth of God's word.
But we see here that the psalmist, he's, he's worshiping the Lord and he's reminding himself,
God is righteous.
He's righteous.
He always does that which is right.
Notice as we continue in verse number eight, the Lord is gracious.
Aren't you thankful for God's grace?
So often we sing amazing grace, how sweet the sound.
And you think about that grace and we find that Paul would say in the book of 1 Timothy
that his grace that he refers to it as being abundant grace.
You find that in the book of Ephesians, for by grace are you saved through faith and that
not of yourselves.
It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast.
We find that here the psalmist is worshiping the Lord and he says, listen, God is gracious.
I wonder this morning, how often do we really focus on the fact that we serve a God who
is gracious?
Some have used an acronym, if you will, God's riches at Christ's expense and God giving
us what we do not deserve.
God's gracious.
It's his very nature, his being, he is a gracious God.
Notice in verse number eight, the Bible says not only is the Lord gracious, but he's full
of compassion.
And there are times in your life and there are times in my life that we're compassionate,
but we find that we're not always compassionate and we find that we're not full of compassion,
but yet we find that our God, he's full of compassion.
I'm so thankful as you study through the New Testament, you study the life of Christ and
the gospel records, you have the opportunity to read of occasions in which the scriptures
will tell us that Jesus was moved with what?
With compassion.
He's moved with compassion.
Why does the psalmist make this declaration that great is the Lord in verse number three?
Why do I say that he's convinced, that he's confident of God's greatness?
Well he provides us within this short psalm a number of reasons that brings him to the
place of declaring God is great.
He's gracious in verse number eight, he's compassionate in verse number eight.
Notice the Bible says that he's slow to anger.
I think of the idea of being long-suffering.
I'm so thankful that our God is slow to anger, aren't you?
And we find that judgment, he's a just God and we find that he does judge and we see
that throughout the scriptures, not just in the Old Testament, the New Testament as well.
We see that he judges, in fact, we understand the Bible teaches us about two future judgments
that are still to come.
One for believers and one for unbelievers, but we find that he's slow to wrath.
He is here as it says in verse number eight, slow to anger, slow to anger.
He's long-suffering.
I know I've said this before, but the reality is that for each of us in our own personal
lives we are rejoicing and we are thankful when God is long-suffering with us as individuals,
aren't we?
Now sometimes when God is long-suffering with someone else we don't really understand it.
We might think, why isn't God dealing with them?
But God is long-suffering and I'm so thankful that we serve a God who's long-suffering.
Can I tell you that he's more long-suffering than you and he's more long-suffering than
I am?
God is long-suffering.
And the psalmist says this is reason to rejoice, this is reason to declare that God is great.
At the end of verse number eight, he's a merciful God and notice it says great mercy, great
mercy.
The Bible would reveal to us on a number of occasions that our God is not only gracious
giving us what we do not deserve, but he's also merciful not giving us what we do deserve.
Truly what we deserve this morning is separation from God for all of eternity in a place called
the Lake of Fire.
Why?
Because we're all guilty sinners, but God because of his grace and because of his mercy.
I mentioned that Paul said in 1 Timothy that God, he mentioned about God's grace being
abundant grace.
He says in the book of Ephesians in chapter number two that God is rich in mercy.
What a joy to consider this morning that our God is merciful.
We find that just a few pages back in your, in the book of Psalms in Psalm 136, I'm not
going to read it, but you'll notice that throughout Psalm 136 that every verse in Psalm 136 ends
with this statement, for his mercy endureth forever.
You think God wants us to understand that truth?
I mean he repeats it in one Psalm, throughout the Psalm, he repeats it over and over and
over.
And by the way, the Psalm begins this way, oh give thanks unto the Lord for he is good,
for his mercy endureth forever.
He's of great mercy is what the Psalmist says in Psalm 145 in verse number eight.
Notice as we continue in verse number nine, the Lord is good.
Notice where it says to all.
I'm thankful that God's goodness extends to all people.
I'm thankful that our God is a God who loves everyone, amen.
I was reading this morning, as I was reading in my office and doing my personal devotions,
I was once again reminded of the wonderful, just biblical truth that God loves all of
humanity, that God is a loving God.
He's a just God.
He's a loving God, for God so loved the world.
God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.
And we find that not all will receive the gift of God.
Not all will receive the gift of eternal life, and they will go to a Christless eternity,
as I mentioned before, in a place called the Lake of Fire, but it's not because God didn't
love them, it's not because God didn't want them to be saved, it's because they rejected
the free gift of salvation.
We find the Bible says that he's good to all.
Notice his tender mercies are over all his works.
Again, we see in verse number nine about God's goodness and about God's mercy.
As we continue in verse 10, it says, all thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, and thy saints
shall bless thee.
In verse number 11, they shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom and talk of thy power
to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.
Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.
In verses 11 through 13, we see the reference to God's kingdom, and I'm so thankful that
our God is King of kings and Lord of lords, that he is the great I Am.
I'm thankful that he has all power.
We read here in these verses of Scripture about the kingdom, God's kingdom being an
everlasting kingdom, and speaking of his dominion enduring throughout all generations.
We live in a time today where the heathen rage, Psalm 2.
But God rules.
Listen, the heathen can rage, but God rules.
The Lord God omnipotent ruleth.
He is on his throne, and we find that one day, listen, Jesus is going to come back.
We understand the tribulation is going to take place after the rapture of the church,
and then after the tribulation, those seven years of tribulation, God himself is coming
all the way to earth.
At the rapture, we're going to meet the Lord in the clouds.
And then at the second coming of Christ, we're going to come back with him, and we're going
to come, and he's going to establish his kingdom upon this earth.
He will rule and reign for a thousand years.
It's called the millennial kingdom of Christ, and he's going to rule and reign for a thousand
years.
And what a blessing to consider the kingdom and understanding, as David is writing this,
listen, he's a king, is he not?
He's the king of Israel.
But we understand that he had the promises given, if you think about the Davidic covenant
and how the Lord Jesus Christ fulfills the Davidic covenant.
And speaking of the house and the throne and the kingdom and understanding this truth,
and we see here that David is rejoicing.
and he's speaking about God's greatness, listen, our God is eternal.
It speaks about here in these verses about being everlasting in the glorious majesty
of His kingdom.
And understand, listen, our God has no beginning and no ending.
That's hard for us to comprehend.
Every single one of us had a beginning.
Amen?
You were born.
Every one of us will have a physical ending.
But our God, He lives forever.
He's eternal.
No beginning and no ending.
He says, I am alpha and omega.
Wow.
Can you understand why the psalmist was so convinced of God's greatness?
Can you understand this morning why he was so confident that my God is great?
And because He's great, He is greatly to be praised.
Notice as we continue in verse number 14, notice the Bible says, the Lord upholdeth
all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down.
We see in verse number 14 that our God sustains.
I'm thankful that He sustains us.
I'm thankful at the end of verse number 14 when it talks about, and raiseth up all those
that be bowed down, I'm thankful that He's a restoring God.
He restores.
You think about Psalm 23, a psalm that is very familiar to us, He restoreth my soul.
You think about the fact that our God, He sustains.
He restores.
Verse 15, the eyes of all wait upon Thee, and Thou givest them their meat in due season.
Thou openest Thine hand and satisfyest the desire of every living thing.
You know our God provides.
He provides.
You say, well, I get my, you know, God provides.
Remember, we're studying the book of Genesis through the end portion there as we're nearing
the end of the book of Genesis, and you see about that great famine, right?
There were seven years of great plenty, but then there was dearth in the land.
There was a great famine.
What was the result of that?
God withholding, right?
God's the one who sends the rain.
God's the one that provides for all of His creation, and we find that here this morning,
we recognize that God is our provider.
So often as a man, as a husband, as a father, personally, I think about the responsibility
of being a provider for my family, and certainly that's a biblical truth and responsibility,
but I often try to remind my family that truly it's God who is the provider, and God has
given me the opportunity to fulfill that role for my family, but ultimately it's God
doing that providing.
He's the provider.
Notice in verse 17, the Lord is righteous.
Notice what it says, in all His ways.
We find that it, we mentioned already at the end of verse number seven, it talks about
sing of thy righteousness.
We mentioned about the fact that God is righteous, but notice it says the Lord is righteous in
all His ways.
He didn't say some of His ways.
He didn't say most of His ways.
He said all His ways.
God always does what's right.
Have you ever heard somebody say, why do good, bad things happen to good people?
You've heard people say that kind of thing, and they try to bring a charge against our
God.
They try to question His goodness and His righteousness, but understand this morning
that our God doeth all things well.
Understand this morning that the Lord is righteous in all His ways.
And by the way, you don't have to understand why God does what God does.
He's God.
You know what I'm thankful for?
I mean, overwhelmed with gratitude that so often God in His word has given us truth that
helps us understand why He works the way that He does.
He doesn't always do that, and we have circumstances and things that we may face, but we can rest
assured in the fact of knowing that God doeth all things well.
That the Lord is righteous in all His ways.
You have something that happens in your life, and you begin to question, listen, that's
the enemy trying to get you to question the goodness and righteousness of God.
But we rest on a Bible truth like we find here in Psalm 145 and verse 17 saying, no,
I'm not going to entertain those thoughts for a second, for a moment.
Why?
Because the Lord is righteous in all His ways.
You know, God has taught me and God has taught a number of people, Bible characters we could
go to this morning, valuable lessons through great difficulty, through circumstances that
quite honestly we would not really desire to have.
Remember what the psalmist says in Psalm 119, it was good for me to be afflicted.
Really?
Yeah.
Because then I learned thy statutes.
The psalmist says it was good for me to be afflicted.
Often we do not take that same approach and that same mindset, but we find that God is
righteous in all His ways, and He has a purpose and He has a plan.
I may not always understand what His plan is, but I can rest assured knowing that He
has a good plan and that His plan is going to ultimately bring honor and glory to Himself.
Notice with me in verse 18, the end of verse 17, sorry, and holy in all His works.
We serve a holy God.
You see the scene in Isaiah 6, the Lord is high and holy, lifted up.
This train fills the temple, and Isaiah sees this vision of God, and he hears holy, holy,
holy.
You read in the book of Revelation as God would give us a preview, if you will, into
heaven, the throne room of heaven, and what do you see, what do you read as you find there
that vision?
Will you read that the angels are there around the throne, holy, holy, holy.
I'm thankful that our God is holy.
He's a holy God.
By the way, because He's a holy God, He's called us to live holy lives.
Amen?
In the book of Leviticus is where that truth begins, when He says to His people that they
are to be holy, why?
For I, the Lord thy God, am holy.
We find that that truth is carried on to the New Testament, and the Bible tells us as Peter
is writing to those believers, he says that we're to be holy in all manner of conversation,
in every area of our lives.
There's not a difference for a believer between sacred and secular.
No, we're to be holy in all manner of conversation, in every area of your life and my life, why?
Because we serve a holy God.
Why is it that we'd say this morning that we enter into His presence and we are going
to worship Him, He's worthy of our worship, but I said this, that we would worship God
in spirit and in truth.
You know, all that's called worship is not truly worship this morning.
Our God is holy, and we must approach Him on the grounds of His holiness and understanding
that He is a thrice holy God.
Notice as we look at verse 18, the Bible says, the Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon
Him, to all that call upon Him in truth.
He will fulfill the desire of them that fear Him.
He also will hear their cry and will save them.
In verse 18 and 19, I see here in these two verses of Scripture, the wonderful truth that
God hears us when we pray.
Why is God great?
Why is the psalmist convinced?
Why is he confident of God's greatness?
Well, throughout the Psalms, you can read a number of occasion when David cries out
to the Lord.
In fact, so many of our Psalms are just that, they're prayers.
And David says, God hears me when I pray.
That's great.
You know, it's amazing that God can hear every single one of us at the same time praying.
Within the congregation here this morning, there's not a ton of people here, but even
within such a crowd this size, there are multiple languages spoken, even amongst those that
are gathered here this morning.
You know, each one of us can pray.
I can only pray in English, it's the only language I know.
And some of you can pray in English and another language because you speak multiple languages.
And you know God can hear you?
He can hear you.
And if we all decide to pray at the same time, God can hear every single one of us.
God never says, Tim, not now, I'm busy, I'm listening.
No, no, no, God hears all of us, it's amazing.
How many times have you been in a room, maybe in a conversation in some setting somewhere,
and a couple of people try to start talking to you at the same time?
You ever have that happen?
And often when that happens, you say something like this, oh, hold on, one at a time, right?
Why?
Because you can only understand one person at a time.
You're going to miss something from someone.
Our God is great.
David says, when I call out to Him, I know that God hears me.
He hears my cry.
And I know that my God who hears also answers.
Understand this morning that God's answer to your prayer isn't always what you might
think it should look like.
Amen?
Sometimes God's answer to your prayer is not what
you think it should look like. I'll say it again, to help us understand that truth because
sometimes we pray and then we try to help God understand how He could answer our prayer.
God would be really nice if you did it this way. Listen, my way is not the best way. I've
learned that in my life. Your way is not always the best way, but God's way is always the
best way. You know, sometimes God says no. Sometimes He says no. Sometimes God's answer
might be delayed. It might be delayed. He's trying to teach us something in the current
circumstances in which we're... Listen, God is able to do exceeding abundantly above all
that we ask or think, according to Ephesians 3 and verse number 20. He says to Jeremiah,
call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and mighty things which thou
knowest not. David is rejoicing because God hears. God answers. Notice in verse number
20, the Lord preserveth all them that love Him, but all the wicked will He destroy. I
notice in verse number 20 the fact that our God preserves. I'm thankful I have a future
in heaven. I have a future with God for all of eternity. Why? Because He's mine and I'm
His. I trusted the Lord Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, some 25 years ago now. It's getting
26 years ago now. And I placed my faith and trust in the finished work of Christ at Calvary,
understanding that there was nothing I could do to be saved on my own. There was no merit
of my own that would earn me salvation. I was a guilty sinner in need of the only Savior,
the Lord Jesus Christ. And I placed my faith and trust in the death, burial, and glorious
resurrection of Jesus Christ. And at that moment of time, I didn't understand all of
this at that moment, but at that very moment, God saved my soul. I understood that part.
But He said that I was a child of His. He says that I was adopted into His family. I
became an heir, a joint heir with Jesus Christ. I had His righteousness imputed upon me. I
have a future in heaven. Why? Because He preserves. He said this, my sheep hear my voice and I
know them and I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish. He said in the
book of 1 Peter that we are kept by the power of God. We have an inheritance that's reserved
in heaven for us. It's undefiled. It's uncorruptible. I mean, it's reserved for us. He preserves.
I'm so thankful this morning to have a home in heaven. I wonder, do you know for sure
that heaven is your home this morning? Have you had that confidence, you've had that time
in your life, that moment when you trust that Christ is your Savior? The Bible uses
the term to be born again. Tim and I were knocking doors several weeks ago now, maybe
a couple of months ago, and this lady that was there at the door as we spoke with her,
she said, you know, it's funny that you're here. I have a cousin that's recently been
talking about being born again. She said, I have no idea what that means. I said, man,
I was excited at that moment. I said, man, praise the Lord. We got us an opportunity
here. Amen? And I said, well, ma'am, that is a Bible word, a Bible phrase to be born
again. I said, if I could take a few moments and take the Bible and show you where Jesus
uses that term born again and what it means, would you be interested in taking a look at
that? She's like, oh yeah, I have no idea what that means. So, man, we went to John
chapter number three. Nicodemus comes to Jesus by night. And Jesus says, marvel not that
I said to thee, you must be born again. Here's what it means. And I began to explain to her
what it means to be born again. I wish that Vicki trusted Christ as her Savior that day,
but she did not. She rejected. But understand this morning that to be born again is not
a process. It's a miracle of a moment. It's recognizing that you're a sinner in need of
the only Savior and coming to Christ alone. You're the only Savior and I trust you. I'm
placing my faith and trust in you alone. Lord, save me. The Bible says we're born again.
Wonderful, wonderful Bible truth. The psalmist, in Psalm 145, as we walk through this psalm,
the psalmist is convinced, he's confident that his God, our God, is great. I wonder
this morning, are you convinced of God's greatness? Are you confident this morning that God is
great? If you were challenged this morning, if you were challenged this week, somebody
said to you, oh, you believe God is great? Tell me why God is great. How much evidence
could you give to support your claim that God is great? We see in the psalm, I mean,
in Psalm 145, it's not exhaustive. Why is it not exhaustive? Well, remember, his greatness
is unsearchable. David's providing us with a little glimpse. Notice, that was our first
point. I only have three points and the next two are pretty short, so we're in good shape.
Number two this morning, in Psalm 145, we find, number one, that the psalmist is convinced,
he's confident of God's greatness. But number two this morning, the psalmist is committed
to declaring God's greatness. He's committed to it. I begin to notice in this psalm, Psalm
145, these I will statements. You begin to think about these statements when the psalmist
says I will, and they're declarative statements. They're statements of purpose, of commitment.
When you say to somebody, I will do this, maybe you've heard somebody say, I'll try.
I saw a sign, Holly and I were at a restaurant several, it was a while ago, there was a sign
in the restaurant that said, there is no try, there is do or don't. And I thought, well,
that's putting it right there, amen? But the reality is that here, the psalmist doesn't
say, I will try to do this. He says, I will. I will. That's a purposed statement. That
is a statement that requires us to be very calculated in how we will fulfill what we
have declared that we will do. The psalmist every day, after he makes the statement of
I will, and there are several of them, we'll look at them quickly, when he makes this commitment
to the Lord, he has to be very calculated in how he will live his life. Why? Because
he's made some declarative statements, he's purposed to do some things in his life. It's
said of D.L. Moody that he made a commitment to God that every day of his life he would
not pillow his head before he had the opportunity to share the gospel with at least one person
every day of his life. Many people ask the question, why did D.L. Moody see so many people
trust Christ as his Savior? Because he planted so much seed. He preached the gospel. And
he said, I will not pillow my head in the evening until I've shared the gospel with
at least one person. It's said that on one particular day of his life he had a super
busy day. Can any of us relate? He went through that day and all of the busyness and all of
the things that took place, and as he was ready to, as they would use the word in that
time frame, retire, he was ready to go to his bed and go to sleep that evening, he was
reminded of the fact that on that particular day he had not yet shared the gospel with
anyone. So he left his home late at night in the darkness of the night in Chicago, left
his home to find someone that he could share the gospel with. And that's somebody that's
committed to what he has promised God to do. Here the psalmist is committed to declare
the greatness of God. Notice in verse number one the Bible says, I will extol thee. That
word extol means to magnify, to lift up, to exalt. And here David says, I will extol thee,
my God, O King. Notice another I will statement in verse number one, I will bless thy name
forever and ever. Now think about this, as David would say this, not only the idea of
during his life here upon earth, but even as he understood, I will dwell in the house
of the Lord forever, Psalm 23 and verse number six, that you and I this morning, listen,
we will praise God forever, but forever should start today. In eternity, we're going to praise
God. You just read the book of Revelation, we're going to praise him. But that praising
should start now. David says, I will bless thy name forever and ever. Notice in verse
number two, it doesn't say I will, it says will I, but it's the same kind of concept
and thought. In verse number two, every day will I bless thee. So he says, I will bless
thy name forever and ever, but notice the specific in verse number two, every day will
I bless thee. I wonder this morning in our lives, are we blessing the Lord? Are we lifting
up and exalting his name every single day? Verse two continues, and I will praise thy
name forever and ever. Wow. Here's what David says, I'm going to do. I will do these things.
There's another one that's mentioned in verse number five. Notice, he says, I will speak
of the glorious honor of thy majesty and of thy wondrous works. I will speak is what David
says in verse number five. He's going to open his mouth. He's going to speak the glorious
honor of thy majesty and of thy wondrous works, and sometimes in life you say, well,
no one wants to hear. Go find somebody that wants to hear. Open our mouth and speak the
glory of God. Notice in verse number six, he says, and men shall speak of the might
of thy terrible acts, but notice again another I will statement. I will declare thy greatness.
We use that phrase for our missions conference this year.
Back in May, great is the Lord and greatly to be praised,
but then the psalmist says, I will declare thy greatness.
I think of Paul as he's there, and he's in Athens,
and he's given, he's stirred up, why?
Because he sees a city that's wholly given to idolatry,
and he's moved, and he begins to go and preach,
and he says that I found this tomb,
or this idol that you had here
that was engraved to the unknown God.
To him declare I unto thee.
People need to know how great our God is.
People need to know our God.
There's a lot of people in our world
that have a wrong idea about who God is.
You know who God's chosen to give them
the truth of who God is?
Those that know him, us.
David says, I will declare thy greatness.
Notice one final statement that he says.
He doesn't use the word I will,
but it seems like it's implied in verse number 21,
when it says, my mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord.
My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord.
This morning, we find that the psalmist is convinced,
he's confident that God is great.
We find this morning that the psalmist is committed
to declaring the greatness of God.
It's a wonderful thing to know that God is great,
but it shouldn't end there.
We should declare that to someone else.
By the way, I'm thankful that there were some people
that went before me, that went before you,
that knew God was great and had the commitment
that David gives here of telling another generation
of God's greatness, amen?
Notice with me number three,
as we bring it all together and give us this final thought,
the charge to every believer, the charge to every believer.
We see there's being convinced and being committed,
but then there's a charge that is given to every believer.
Notice in verse number four, the Bible says,
one generation shall praise thy works to another
and shall declare thy mighty acts.
I think about that phrase when the Bible begins
in verse number four, one generation,
and here's what I say as I read that.
I say, that's me, that's us.
We are one generation that is to invest
in a future generation.
How are my children?
How are your children?
How are our grandchildren?
And now I have a grandchild,
so I can say that as our grandchildren,
but how can our children, how can future generations know?
Well, one generation shall praise thy works.
See, it's good for us to know that God is great,
but there's another generation.
There's always another generation,
and that next generation needs to know that God is great.
Listen, it's easy for us to sit around this morning
and look at our beloved nation and see what's taking place
and saying how things have changed
and oh, this new generation.
Listen, it's our duty to reveal to them,
to declare to them how great God is.
One generation, that's me, that's you.
Notice in verse number 10,
and all thy works shall praise thee, O Lord.
Notice the end of verse number 10,
and thy saints shall bless thee.
If you're saved this morning, you're a saint.
You're a saint if you're saved this morning.
Christ is in you and you are in him.
You're a saint.
That's a Bible definition.
Don't get mixed up with what the Catholics talk about.
A saint is a believer, a child of God,
a saved person.
That's a saint.
And he says, all thy saints shall bless thee.
Again, as I said with verse number four,
one generation, that's me, that's you.
Well, in verse number 10, thy saints shall bless thee.
Again, that's me and that's you
if you're saved here this morning.
To speak in verse number 10,
all thy saints shall bless thee.
It said earlier, how can we bless the Lord?
How is it that we do this?
Well, we speak, we make known,
as we've seen in verse number 12, to make known.
As we saw David saying, I will speak,
and we understand this morning this responsibility
that you and I have as this generation,
as his people, as the saints of God.
And then in verse 21, David said,
my mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord,
but notice, and let all flesh bless his holy name
forever and ever.
Now, you think about that phrase when it says all flesh,
because in verse number 10, it said saints.
But here in verse number 21, it says all flesh.
You know, this is a biblical truth.
Turn to the book of Philippians, if you will,
and I'm gonna close with this this morning.
And I want you to see
that all flesh will bless his holy name.
All flesh will bless his name.
His holy name.
In the book of Philippians, in chapter number two,
the Bible reveals to us in these few verses of Scripture
the wonderful truth of the incarnation of Christ,
the time of year that we're celebrating right now,
when God became flesh.
But we notice, and I won't read all of it for sake of time,
but in verse number nine, in verse eight,
it speaks about him going to the cross
and how thankful we are for the substitutionary atonement.
But in verse number nine, we see that the Bible says,
wherefore God also hath highly exalted him
and given him a name which is above every name.
Notice what the Bible says, that at the name of Jesus,
what does your Bible say?
Every knee should bow of things in heaven
and things in earth and things under the earth,
and that, what does it say?
Every tongue should confess.
Confess what?
That Jesus Christ is Lord
through the glory of God the Father.
All flesh will bless his holy name.
But here's the amazing truth.
It's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when.
You've heard me say this before,
when makes all the difference.
Every knee will bow and every tongue will confess,
but when makes all the difference?
If you bow your knee and confess with your tongue
the Lord Jesus Christ and trust him as your savior
before you take your final breath here on earth,
that means you have a secured home in heaven
for all of eternity because Christ is your savior.
You belong to him.
He made you a son of his.
If you do not bow your knee,
if you do not confess with your mouth
the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal savior
before you take your final breath here on this earth,
the Bible tells us that you'll stand before God
in Revelation chapter number 20.
The scene in Revelation chapter 20 is,
honestly, it's a sad scene.
It's a scene that should cause every child of God to weep,
the great white throne judgment.
And the Bible says that all of those
that did not confess the Lord Jesus Christ,
all those that are lost, as we'd use that terminology,
they will stand at that great white throne judgment.
You know, at that moment,
they will confess that Jesus is Lord.
But it will be too late.
They'll confess it, but it will be too late.
They'll spend eternity in a lake of fire.
The Bible says that death and hell
were cast into the lake of fire.
Speaks about this being the second death.
This morning, we see that there's a charge
for every believer, one generation, his saints.
Listen, we ought to be actively committed
to declaring the greatness of God.
This morning, I know, I have a level of confidence
this morning that for most of us,
I don't know every single person that's here this morning.
There's some folks that I've just met.
But I think for most of us this morning,
we are convinced, we're confident that God is great.
But I wonder this morning,
how committed are we to declaring his greatness?
A charge has been given.
We have a generation, and we have a responsibility.
Stephen Trill, with the Lord now, he always used to say this.
We are the ones that are to reach this generation.
Why?
Because we're the ones that are alive that have the truth.
One generation reaches the next generation.
What an opportunity God has given us.
Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised.
I hope this morning that we're not only convinced,
but we're committed to declaring the greatness of God.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
How we thank you for loving us.
We thank you this morning that you're a great God,
that you truly are worthy of our praise.
I thank you that you've given us so much truth in your word
that would lead us to the conclusion
that you're a great God.
We've experienced in our own lives.
God, I pray that you would help every believer
here this morning to be committed
to declaring your greatness.
Lord, I pray that if there's one here this morning
that's not trusted,
the Lord Jesus Christ is their personal savior.
They do not know for sure that heaven's their home.
The thought of being born again is foreign to them.
I mean, they're desiring to go to heaven.
heaven. Maybe they've even believed that they could be a good enough person to get to heaven.
God based upon the authority of your word, there's none righteous, no not one. Salvation
is not earned by our works. It's a gift that is given to us by you. And Lord if there's
one here this morning, maybe there's multiple here this morning, that do not know you as
their personal Lord and Savior. I pray the Holy Spirit of God would convict them and
convince them. I pray that you'd draw them to yourself even at this moment. God I pray
that you'd give us an opportunity to take a Bible and show them how they could have
assurance of heaven. You're a great Savior. You're a wonderful God. You love all people.
And I know that even if there's one amongst us or that's tuned in via live stream that's
not sure of heaven, as much of any one of us would desire for them to be saved, you
desire it more. You're not willing that any should perish, that all should come to repentance.
God I pray that you'd move and work in this time of invitation. I pray that you'd help
your people to be doers of the word and not hearers only. Help us to be responsive and
we'll thank you God for what you'll do. For it's in Christ's name we pray. Would you stand
with me?